EMBEDED SYSTEM:- it is microcontroller or microprocessor based software controlled,reliable and real time control system.
** Often, embedded systems are used in real-time operating environments and use a real-time operating system (RTOS) to communicate with the hardware.

Embeded systems mainly consists of three components:-
1) Hardware
2)software
3)real time operating system (RTOS) which define how the system works by supervising the software by setting rules in the time of program execution.[they are not always included in embeded systems 
   especially in small scale systems].


RTOS HAS 3 TYPES:-
hard RTOS:- it is used when we need to complete the task in given deadline immediatley if its not done then it considerd to be a failure system
EXAMPLE :- airbags systems, if in time of accident if they were delayed opening then the system is failure
soft RTOS :- it is used where few delays in time are acceptable but the tasks which are not done after the specified time also it is considered to be failure
EXAMPLE :- calling or reciving a call can delay it doesnt cause much damage.
firm RTOS :- it is between hard and soft rtos .
EXAMPLE :- video conferencing.

In terms of hardware, a basic embedded system would consist of the following elements:
Sensors  convert physical sense data into an electrical signal.
Analog-to-digital (A-D) converters change an analog electrical signal into a digital one.
Processors process digital signals and store them in memory.
Digital-to-analog (D-A) converters change the digital data from the processor into analog data.
Actuators compare actual output to memory-stored output and choose the correct one.

MICROPROCESSOR :- it is an integrated circuit which performs ALU operations and communicates with other device connected with it.CPU built on single integrated circuit.
basically it has ALU, control unit, register array.

BASIC TERMS USED IN MICROPROCESSOR:-
BUS :- it is a set of conductors intended to transfer data or address or control information to different elements in microprocessor.it has three types 1)data bus 2)control bus 3)address bus
INSTRUCTION SET :- it is the set of commands that microprocessor can understand and it is the interface between software and hardware.
WORD LENGTH :- it is the number of bits the processor can process at a time.
CLOCK SPEED :- the speed in which  processor can perform operations in one second, Simply it is the speed in which microprocessor can execute the instructions.
MP uses clock signal to control the speed of the instructions execution.

CLASSIFICATION OF MICROPROCESSOR :-
SCALAR AND SUPERSCALAR PROCESSORS
SCALAR:- processor that executes scalar data is scalar processor.simple scalar processor can process only integer instruction using fixed operands, whereas powerscalar can process both intger a
and floating point numbers also.
RISC AND CISC are scalar processors.
RISC(Reduced instruction set computer microprocessor):-it has reduced set of instructions and consists large number of registers and has large program and more ram usage and fixed length 
instructions and fixed number of clock cycles to execute one instruction.The compiler has to work more
CISC(complex instruction set computer microprocessor):- it has complex instruction set and less registers and has small program and less ram usage and variable length instructions and
variable number of clock cycles to execute one instruction.The compiler has to work less.
SUPERSCALAR :- processor that has multiple pipelines and can execute more than one instruction per clockcycle.

DSP(digital signal processors):- these convert analog signal to digital signal. Mainly used in music audio synthesis and video signal processing and 2D and 3D graphics accelration.
COPROCESSOR :- it is designed to supplement the capabilites of the primary processor.By offloading processor-intensive tasks from the main processor, coprocessors can
accelerate system performance.
TRANSPUTER(transistor computer):- it is a special microprocessor that is designed with its own local memory in it and having links within it to communicate between one transputer to other 
transputer.



MICROPROCESSOR ARCHITECTURE:- 8085

*intel 8085 processor is an 8 bit processor designed in 1976
*its address bus is 16 bit wide
*its data bus and ALU are of 8 bit
* it has 40 pins
* it has 80 instructions
* requires 5V power supply
* it can operate with clock speed of 3MHz, sometimes with 5MHz

\\
ALU(arithemetic and logic unit):- arithematic and logic functions are done. It has two temporary registers(ACT & TMP) which stores data temporarly during the time of execution and these are not accessible
by the programmer.

TIMING AND CONTROL UNIT:- it is used to control the data flow between cpu and other peripherals(memory,I/O,etc..).it is used to control timing signals also.
control signals:-
	READY:- it senses wether a peripheral is ready or not to transfer the data, if it is 1 then it is ready to transfer the data, if it is 0 then it waits till it becomes 1
	RD:- read operation, if its 0 then the selected memory or I/O is read, if its 1 then it has to be read
	WR:- write operation, if its 0 then the data is written into memory or I/O
      ALE(address latch enable):- it goes high for the first T state of machine cycle and enables lower 8 bit of address
status signals :- 
	IO/M:- it determines wether the adress is for I/o or memory.if it 1 then the address is for IO device, if its 0 then the addres is for memory device.
DMA signals:-
	HOLD:- it indicates that other device is requesting acess of data bus and address after hold is gone the signal processor regains the bus
	HLDA:- it indicates when hold request is recieved, it is set to 0 when hold signal is gone.
RESET signals:-
	RESETIN:- when its 0 then the program counter is set to 0 and bus and mpu is reset
	RESETOUT:- this signal indicates when the MPU is being reset and it is used to reset other devices also.

GENERAL PURPOSE REGISTERS:-B,C,D,E,H,L are 8bit registers where as W,L are temporary 8 bit registers
	pairs BC,DE,HL,WZ together can be 16 bit register pairs.
	HL is a data pointer which holds memory address.

PC(PROGRAM COUNTER):- it is 16bit register used to store memory address location of the next instructoin to be executed.MP increments PC when an instruction is being executed so that 
	                it point to the instruction which has to be executed next.

STACK POINTER:- it is a 16bit register like stack increments and decrements by 2 during push and pop operations.

FLAG REGISTER:- it is 8bit register having 1 bit five flipflops.which holds 0 or 1 values.
                those 5 are:-
	SIGN FLAG:- 1-MSB 1
	            0-MSB 0
	ZERO FLAG:- 1-result 0
	            0-non 0 result
	AUXILARY CARY FLAG :- 1 carry on addition or borrow on subtraction
	                      0 otherwise
	PARITY FLAG :- if result has even parity its 1, if parity is odd p is cleared.
	CARRY FLAG:- if carry is there then its 1.

INSTRUCTION REGISTER and DECODER :- when an instruction is fetched from the memory then its stored in instruction register and decoder decodes the info in instructoin register.

DATA BUS AND ADDRESS BUS:- data bus carris the data to be stored and its bidirectional whereas address bus carries the location to where it has to be stored and its unidirectional
**in 16bit address the 8 most significant bits are transferred by address bus and 8 least significant bits are transferred by address and data bus.

INTERRUPT CONTROL :- when the MP is executing the main program and when interrupt occurs it goes there and finish the interrupt program and comes back to the main program.
	             INTR,TRAP,RST5.5,RST6.5,RST7.5
classification interrupt signals :-
	VECTOR INTERRUPT:- in this interrupt address is already known to the processor(TRAP,RST5.5,RST6.5,RST7.5).
	NON-VECTOR INTERRUPT :- in this interrpt address in not known to the processor so the interupt adress has to be sent externally to perform interupt operation(INTR)
	MASKABLE INTERRUPT :- we can disable the interrupt by writing some instructions into the program(INTR,RST5.5,RST6.5,RST7.5).
	NON-MASKABLE INTERRUPT :- we cannot disable the interrupt by writing some instructions into the program (TRAP).
	HARDWARE INTERRUPT:- there are 5 interrupt pins in 8085 ( INTR,TRAP,RST5.5,RST6.5,RST7.5)
	SOFTWARE INTERRUPT :- in this programmerhas to write some instructionsto get interrupts and there are 8 software interrupts in 8085(RST0 to RST7).
	ISR(interrupt service routine):- a small program or routine that when executed services the corresponding interrupting source.

ASSEMBLY LANGUAGE OF 8085 :-

EXAMPLE :- (mvi a,b)- here mvi is OPCODE and a,b are operands.
MNEMONICs are basically abbrevations/commands to specify the instruction(same as opcode)
*mnemonic is a symbolic name for a single executable machine language instruction (an opcode), and there is at least one opcode mnemonic defined for each machine language instruction. 
EXAMPLES:- 3C is an opcode and INR b is a mnemonic




